TWIB #3 (#3)
ballista-compute/website: jekyll-content/_posts/2021-01-31-this-week-in-ballista-3.md

---
layout: post
title:  "This Week in Ballista #3"
date:   2021-01-31 10:00:00 -0700
categories: thisweek
---

Welcome to the third edition of "This Week in Ballista", a weekly newsletter that summarizes activity in the 
[Ballista Distributed Compute](https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista) project.

Ballista is a modern distributed compute platform powered by [Apache Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org/) and primarily 
implemented in Rust, but designed to provide first-class support for other programming languages, including Python, 
C++, and Java.

## Current Status

There have been some notable developments this week:

There are now separate `scheduler` and `executor` binaries, with support for the following deployment models:
- Local Mode: Single process containing scheduler and executor. This is the simplest way to run Ballista and is 
  primarily intended for local development testing.
- Standalone Mode: Executors connect to the scheduler process

> - Etcd Mode: Executors connect to the scheduler process and the scheduler uses etcd for discover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Etcd Mode: Executors connect to the scheduler process and the scheduler uses etcd for state management
```

> - Kubernetes Mode: Executors connect to the scheduler process and the scheduler uses Kubernetes for discover

Reviewer: ℹ As per https://github.com/ballista-compute/ballista/pull/446#discussion_r567254444, the k8s mode doesn't exist right now.
